A starter for the K8s docs (#374)
SAP/cloud-sdk: docs/js/guides/migrate-sdk-application-from-btp-cf-to-kubernetes.mdx

---
title: Migrate a JS SDK App from BT CF to Kubernetes
sidebar_label: Migrate to Kubernetes
description: Bla-bla-bla-kubernetes (Tom)
keywords:
  - sap
  - cloud
  - sdk
  - cloud native
  - cloud sdk
  - sap cloud sdk
  - kubernetes
---

> # How to migrate a CloudFoundry application to a Kubernetes Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# How to Migrate a CloudFoundry Application to a Kubernetes Cluster
```

In this how-to, we will show step by step how you can migrate an application from CloudFoundry to Kubernetes.

> Roughly, it comprises of three steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It comprises of three steps:
```

1. First we decide what kind of environment to use. 
2. Then we prepare and setup our cluster with the sufficient services and service bindings.
3. Finally, we adapt our application to deploy to Kubernetes and consume services from within our Kubernetes cluster.

> - [Short PoC Environment](#short-poc-environments)

Reviewer: There is no header for this list...

>   - If you only do a short PoC this kind of environment will be sufficient for you. But it is not recommended for future use or long running PoCs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If you only do a short PoC this kind of environment will be sufficient for you. 
    But it is not recommended for future use or long running PoCs.
```

- [Staging Environments](#staging-environments)

>   - For staging environments we will take a look at a way to create and bind services manually. This is primarily meant to try out different service setups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For staging environments we will take a look at a way to create and bind services manually. 
    This is primarily meant to try out different service setups.
```

- [Production Environments](#production-environments)
  - For production environments we will take a look at a way to create and bind services with reproducibility, longevity and developer simplicity in mind.

## Short PoC Environments
For a short PoC we can create and bind services in CloudFoundry, or preferably even use already existing service bindings.

### Prerequisites

> - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
```

- [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

> ### Create and bind services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create and Bind Services
```

> If you want to create and bind _new_ services, simply deploy a hello-world app to CloudFoundry and then bind services to this app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to create and bind _new_ services, you can deploy a `hello-world` app to CloudFoundry and then bind services to this app.
```

Once that is done, access the binding (which is in JSON format) and create a secret in Kubernetes out of it.

The secret has to be in YAML format like the following example:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: destination-service
type: Opaque
stringData:
  clientid: <client-id>
  clientsecret: <client-secret>
  url: <url>
  identityzone: <identityzone>
  tenantid: <tenantid>
  tenantmode: <tenantmode>
  verificationkey: <verificationkey>
  xsappname: <xsappname>
  uaadomain: <uaadomain>
  instanceid: <instanceid>
  uri: <uri>
```

Once you are done use `kubectl apply -f <your-binding>.yml` to create the secret in your cluster.

Now let's take a look how to adapt our application to consume services and deploy to Kubernetes, for this switch over to the [Deploy to Kubernetes](#deploy-to-kubernetes) section.
## Staging Environments
For a staging environment where you may just want to try out different services or service configurations it is fine to use the following setup.
### Prerequisites

> - [smctl](https://github.com/Peripli/service-manager-cli)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`smctl`](https://github.com/Peripli/service-manager-cli)
```
Same applies below...

- [svcat](https://svc-cat.io/docs/cli/)
- [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
- [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

### Configure the Service Manager
First, create a Service Manager instance in CloudFoundry with the `subaccount-admin` plan. 

To be able to use the Service Manager, you (or your peers) need to have the right privileges in CloudFoundry, for this you need to follow this:

In the SAP Cloud Platform cockpit, navigate to your subaccount and choose Security → Trust Configuration → SAP ID Service.
Assign the `Subaccount Service Administrator` role collection to your email address.

> Next you need to login to the service manager ctl and register your cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next you need to login to the service manager control and register your cluster
```
Actually Im not sure if this is the right word for the abbreviation

```
After installing the proxy you have to wait a few seconds until the it is fully operational.
Once the proxy is working use `svcat marketplace`, all CloudFoundry services should now be listed.

### Create and Bind Services
Now we can create service instances with the service catalog, first let's create the destination service

```bash
svcat provision destination-service --class destination --plan lite
```

Notice how `destination-service` is just the name we give this particular service instance, it could be anything.

Now we could also create an XSUAA

```bash
svcat provision xsuaa-service --class xsuaa --plan broker
```

Finally we just need to bind the services to make them available to our application.

```bash
svcat bind destination-service
svcat bind xsuaa-service
```

Now let's take a look how to adapt our application to consume services and deploy to Kubernetes, for this switch over to the [Deploy to Kubernetes](#deploy-to-kubernetes) section.

## Production Environments
For production environments where you need transparency and reproducibility of the services that are running in your cluster, you should use the service operator. 

> With the service operator, all services are deployed via yaml files, which makes the management of services a lot easier in the longterm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the service operator, all services are deployed via YAML files, which makes the management of services a lot easier in the long term.
```

      - name: sdkjs-e2e
        image: docker-cloudsdk.docker.repositories.sap.ondemand.com/k8s-e2e-app:latest
        resources:
          requests:
            memory: "256Mi"
            cpu: "500m"
          limits:
            memory: "512Mi" 
            cpu: "1000m" 
        ports:
        - containerPort: 3000
        volumeMounts:
          - name: destination-volume
            mountPath: "/etc/secrets/sapcp/destination/operator-destination-service" 
            readOnly: true
          - name: xsuaa-volume
            mountPath: "/etc/secrets/sapcp/xsuaa/operator-xsuaa-service"
            readOnly: true
      imagePullSecrets:
      - name: regcred
      volumes:
        - name: destination-volume
          secret:
            secretName: operator-destination-service
        - name: xsuaa-volume
          secret:
            secretName: operator-xsuaa-service
```

From the `manifest.yml` we know that the app roughly needed 256MB of RAM on CloudFoundry, since we can't tell yet how many resources the app needs on Kubernetes, just take it as a bare minimum (in the `requests` part) and make it possible to scale up with the `limits` part (in this case up to 512MB of RAM).

> Notice that we used `imagePullSecrets`, which is using the `regcred` secret, the `regcred` secret contains our own registry credentials that we previously bound as a secret, you can do this either by writing a `secret.yml` or directly in the cli (though this will be in your `.bashrc`) like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice that we used `imagePullSecrets`, which is using the `regcred` secret, the `regcred` secret contains our own registry credentials that we previously bound as a secret, you can do this either by writing a `secret.yml` or directly in the CLI (though this will be in your `.bashrc`) like this:
```

For a staging environment where you may just want to try out different services or service configurations it is fine to use the following setup.
### Prerequisites
- [`smctl`](https://github.com/Peripli/service-manager-cli)
- [svcat](https://svc-cat.io/docs/cli/)
- [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
- [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

### Configure the Service Manager
First, create a Service Manager instance in CloudFoundry with the `subaccount-admin` plan. 

To be able to use the Service Manager, you (or your peers) need to have the right privileges in CloudFoundry, for this you need to follow this:

In the SAP Cloud Platform cockpit, navigate to your subaccount and choose Security → Trust Configuration → SAP ID Service.
Assign the `Subaccount Service Administrator` role collection to your email address.

Next you need to login to the service manager control and register your cluster
```
smctl login -a https://service-manager.<cf-api-end-point> --param subdomain=<your-cf-subdomain>
smctl register-platform <name-you-want-to-give-the-cluster> kubernetes > service-manager-credentials.txt
```

> Save the `service-manager-credentials.txt` somewhere save, as you will need it later on, especially the username and password.

Author: ```suggestion
The `service-manager-credentials.txt` is sensitive data, keep it in a safe place. You will need it later on, especially the `username` and `password`.
```

### Broker Registration

> To make the services available to us we need to register the service broker, in CloudFoundry called `Service Manager` to the service catalog `svcat`.

Author: ```suggestion
To make the services available in the Kubernetes cluster we need to register a service broker, in the SAP BTP Cloud Foundry.  It's named `Service Manager` and is available in the service catalog `svcat`.
```

> To do this with the `Service Manager`, we just need to install the service-broker-proxy with the following code:

Author: ```suggestion
To access the `Service Manager` on BTP CF, we need to install the `service-broker-proxy` in our K8s cluster. Here's how you do it:```

```bash
helm repo add peripli 'https://peripli.github.io'

kubectl create namespace service-broker-proxy

helm install service-broker-proxy peripli/service-broker-proxy-k8s \
  --namespace service-broker-proxy \
  --set image.tag=v0.3.2 \
  --set config.sm.url=<service-manager-url> \
  --set sm.user=<service-manager-user> \
  --set sm.password=<service-manager-password>
```

> After installing the proxy you have to wait a few seconds until the it is fully operational.

Author: ```suggestion
After installing the proxy you have to wait a few seconds until it is fully operational.
```

> Once the proxy is working use `svcat marketplace`, all CloudFoundry services should now be listed.

Author: ```suggestion
Once the proxy is up, try running `svcat marketplace`, all the services available on SAP BTP CF should now be listed.
```

Author: Where do you run this `svcat`? In your K8s console? Or on your local machine? I didn't get this. Do you need `kubectl` to make a call?

Reviewer 2: `svcat` has a server-side (which runs in the cluster) and a client-side, when we use `svcat` on our local machine, we call the service catalog inside the cluster. This question is probably answered when clicking the `svcat` link in the prerequisites link, it contains installation information for the cluster as well as the local CLI.

### Create and Bind Services
Now we can create service instances with the service catalog, first let's create the destination service

```bash
svcat provision destination-service --class destination --plan lite
```

> Notice how `destination-service` is just the name we give this particular service instance, it could be anything.

Author: ```suggestion
Notice how `destination-service` is just the name we give to this particular service instance, it could be anything.
```

Now we could also create an XSUAA

```bash
svcat provision xsuaa-service --class xsuaa --plan broker
```

> Finally we just need to bind the services to make them available to our application.

Author: ```suggestion
Finally, we just need to bind the services to make them available to our application.
```

---
title: Migrate a JS SDK App from SAP BTP CF to Kubernetes
sidebar_label: Migrate to Kubernetes
description: Learn how to migrate your application from SAP BTP Cloud Foundry to Kubernetes.
keywords:
  - sap
  - cloud
  - sdk
  - cloud native
  - cloud sdk
  - sap cloud sdk
  - kubernetes
---

# How to Migrate a CloudFoundry Application to a Kubernetes Cluster

> In this how-to, we will show step by step how to migrate an application from CloudFoundry to Kubernetes.

Reviewer 2: Agreed, however, I think it fits well at the start, I'll use your suggestion on some of the other occurences

Now let's take a look at how to adapt our application to consume services and deploy to Kubernetes. For this jump over to the [Deploy to Kubernetes](#deploy-to-kubernetes) section.

## Staging Environments
For a staging environment where you may just want to try out different services or service configurations, it is fine to use the following setup.

### Prerequisites
- [`smctl`](https://github.com/Peripli/service-manager-cli)
- [svcat](https://svc-cat.io/docs/cli/)
- [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
- [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

### Configure the Service Manager
First, create a Service Manager instance in CloudFoundry with the `subaccount-admin` plan. 

To be able to use the Service Manager, you will need to have sufficient privileges in the SAP BTP Cloud Foundry. To get them to follow the steps below:

In the SAP Cloud Platform cockpit, navigate to your `subaccount` and choose **Security → Trust Configuration → SAP ID Service**.
Assign the `Subaccount Service Administrator` role collection to your email address.

> Next you need to login to the service manager control and register your cluster

Reviewer 2: the service manager control (`smctl`) is the command-line tool that is used in the code block below this, I guess when the user clicks through the `required` links they will eventually end up at their docs page, that's why I didn't specify it further, I guess I could add "(`smctl`) into the sentence to clarify it

```
smctl login -a https://service-manager.<cf-api-end-point> --param subdomain=<your-cf-subdomain>
smctl register-platform <name-you-want-to-give-the-cluster> kubernetes > service-manager-credentials.txt
```
The `service-manager-credentials.txt` is sensitive data, keep it in a safe place. You will need it later on, especially the `username` and `password`.

### Broker Registration

> To make the services available in the Kubernetes cluster we need to register a service broker, in the SAP BTP Cloud Foundry named `Service Manager`, to the service catalog `svcat`.

Reviewer 2: We register the broker, which is called Service Manager in SAP BTP,  to the service catalog, which is called `svcat`, what part of the sentence is confusing to you exactly?

> To make the services available in the Kubernetes cluster we need to register a service broker, in the SAP BTP Cloud Foundry named `Service Manager`, to the service catalog `svcat`.

Author: I thought `svcat` is a CLI to access the catalog. Or is it both? https://svc-cat.io/docs/cli/

> To make the services available in the Kubernetes cluster we need to register a service broker, in the SAP BTP Cloud Foundry named `Service Manager`, to the service catalog `svcat`.

Author: I updated the suggestion based on my understanding

> To make the services available in the Kubernetes cluster we need to register a service broker, in the SAP BTP Cloud Foundry named `Service Manager`, to the service catalog `svcat`.

Reviewer 2: I think you are right in that `svcat` is the service catalog's cli, but it is kind of both since its a literal abbreviation for Service Catalog, I guess that's where the confusion stemmed from - thanks for the adapted suggestion 👍

Creating an instance:

```yaml
apiVersion: services.cloud.sap.com/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceInstance
metadata:
    name: operator-destination-service
spec:
    serviceOfferingName: destination
    servicePlanName: lite
```

Binding the instance:

```yaml
apiVersion: services.cloud.sap.com/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceBinding
metadata:
  name: operator-destination-service
spec:
  serviceInstanceName: operator-destination-service
```

Notice that the `name` under `metadata` can be anything you want it to be,
just be sure that the instance name matches the `serviceInstanceName` field in the binding.

Follow this pattern for all services your application needs.

Now let's take a look how to adapt our application to consume services and deploy to Kubernetes, for this switch over to the [Deploy to Kubernetes](#deploy-to-kubernetes) section.

## Deploy to Kubernetes
To deploy to Kubernetes we have to take a look at two topics, one is how do we deploy our application to Kubernetes, the second is how do we consume the services in our application from within Kubernetes, for this we will take a look at our
end-to-end application.

### Example App: Simple E2E Application 

> For this example, we will take a look at our [e2e Kubernetes app](https://github.tools.sap/cloudsdk/k8s-e2e-app) app.

Reviewer 2: Yeah I agree, I'm thinking about our GH samples repository

## Create a CI/CD Pipeline
You can create a simple CI/CD pipeline with GitHub Actions or change your existing pipeline.
In order to automatically deploy into the K8s cluster, two things are needed:

1. Automatic build and deployment of the docker image into the docker repository
2. Automatic re-start of the Kubernetes deployment

Step (1) can be achieved by building and pushing the docker image with a technical user.
For Step (2) we need a technical user that is entitled to manage the cluster deployment.

1. [Create a service account](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/) in your cluster
2. Bind the `cluster-admin` ClusterRole to the service account (alternative: create a more strict role)
3. Obtain the _token_ and _CA certificate_ from the secret that is automatically created for that service account
4. Obtain the cluster API endpoint via `kubectl cluster-info` 

> You can now use the service account in your automation to connect to the cluster:

Reviewer 2: I'm not 100% sure what you are referring to, but I think you mean the technical user? In that case its 2 different technical users, one is a technical user for the docker registry, another one is a technical user for the Kubernetes cluster (doesn't matter if its Gardener or plain Kubernetes)

> You can now use the service account in your automation to connect to the cluster:

Reviewer 2: Regarding the Docker repository, it doesn't matter if its the artifcatory or public Docker repo, a technical user is required either way

> You can now use the service account in your automation to connect to the cluster:

Reviewer 2: I changed the phrasing from Docker image to container image now though, since theoretically Kubernetes can also use all other kinds of container images besides Docker.

```

Next, check your shoot-cluster YAML for the currently configured DNS,
it should be a field that looks like this:

```yaml
spec:
  dns:
    domain: cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
```

since you have the NGINX Ingress enabled, all your desired domains have to follow the pattern `*.ingress.<your-dns>`, for example 

```yaml
e2e.ingress.cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
```

This is how your Ingress file should look like:

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: sdkjs-e2e-ingress
  annotations:
    cert.gardener.cloud/purpose: managed
spec:
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
    - e2e.ingress.cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
    secretName: secret-tls
  rules:
  - host: e2e.ingress.cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: sdkjs-e2e-svc
            port:
              number: 8080
```

Notice how our Ingress uses the `Gardener` annotations, which is important so that `Gardener` manages our TLS.

> Next you can see in the `spec.tls.hosts` part that we expose 2 routes, the first one is just our default domain, it is important that this is our first domain, since the first domain is only allowed to be max. 64 characters long, followed by that the domains can be any size, but should follow the Ingress pattern.

Reviewer 2: Indeed, I should just use domains in this case I guess.

```yaml
spec:
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
    - e2e.ingress.cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
    - connectivitytunnel.ingress.cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
    secretName: secret-tls
```

2. Now we need to add our CA certificate to the JVM trust store of the `Cloud Connector`, the CA certificate is stored in the TLS secret, in our case we named it `secret-tls`.
To get the information inside the secret you can use the following code snippet:

```bash
kubectl get secret <secret-name> -o go-template='
{{range $k,$v := .data}}{{printf "%s: " $k}}{{if not $v}}{{$v}}{{else}}{{$v | base64decode}}{{end}}{{"\n"}}{{end}}'
```

In there should be a block prefixed with `ca.crt` copy this certificate into a file and then follow [this guide](https://connect2id.com/blog/importing-ca-root-cert-into-jvm-trust-store).

3. Create and bind the connectivity service with the `connectivty_proxy` plan, refer to the guide of us that is fitting your environment.

> If you use the PoC environment just save the binding as a secret, use the below example, otherwise you need to retrieve the binding first and then format it in `JSON` to save it as a secret, for that you need to retrieve the secret's content first, you can use the previous code snippet for that.

Reviewer 2: I added that I meant the code snipped that was used in the previous step to the description now.

stringData:
  connectivity_key: '{
    "clientid": "<client-id>",
    "clientsecret": "<clientsecret>",
    "xsappname": "<xsappname>",
    "connectivity_service": {
        "CAs_path":"/api/v1/CAs",
        "CAs_signing_path":"/api/v1/CAs/signing",
        "api_path":"/api/v1",
        "tunnel_path":"/api/v1/tunnel",
        "url":"https://connectivity.cf.sap.hana.ondemand.com"
    },
    "subaccount_id": "<subaccount_id",
    "subaccount_subdomain": "<subaccount_subdomain>",
    "token_service_domain": "<token_service_domain">",
    "token_service_url": "<token_service_url>",
    "token_service_url_pattern": "https://{tenant}.authentication.sap.hana.ondemand.com/oauth/token",
    "token_service_url_pattern_tenant_key": "subaccount_subdomain"
}'
```

Note that we used the `stringData` instead of `data` field, this way the content is base64 encoded for us and we don't have to do it ourselves.
This is a requirement of the connectivity proxy, since it can't consume the data of the secret in YAML format _yet_.

4. Now we need to download the CA certificate of the connectivity service and create a secret containing:
- The CA certificate of the connectivity service
- Our private key

> - Our public certificate

Author: Is it a public cert or a key?

Reviewer 2: it's a certificate

> The private key and public certificate are also stored in our TLS secret, use the previous code snippet to retrieve it from the secret and save them in separate files.
> Finally download the CA certificate with the following line:

Author: ```suggestion
The private key and public certificate are also stored in our TLS secret, use the previous code snippet to retrieve it from the secret and save them in separate files.
Finally, download the CA certificate with the following line:
```

Author: Same question here, a public cert or a key?

Reviewer 2: same as previous, it's actually a public certificate

Reviewer 2: Actually reading further into it, for some reason, Gardner calls it public certificate, however everyone else calls it public key 🤔

Reviewer 2: *reading even further into it, the difference is that the public certificate contains more than just the public key, but also the signature by the CA, therefore public certificate is true in this case

```bash
curl https://connectivity.cf.sap.hana.ondemand.com/api/v1/CAs/signing -o connectivity_ca.crt
```

Now you can create the secret with this command:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic connectivity-tls --from-file=ca.crt=<your-connectivity-ca.crt> --from-file=tls.key=<your-private.key> --from-file=tls.crt=<your-public.crt> --namespace default
```

> 5. Create a secret that contains credentials which have access to the docker image that the `Connectivity Proxy` is using.

Author: ```suggestion
5. Create a secret that contains credentials to access to the docker image that the `Connectivity Proxy` is using.
```

The image is located here: `deploy-releases.docker.repositories.sap.ondemand.com`

To create the registry secret use the following command:

```bash 
kubectl create secret docker-registry <your-registry-secret> \                                                                                                   ✔  12402  13:33:05
  --docker-username=<your-username> \
  --docker-password=<your-password> \
  --docker-server=deploy-releases.docker.repositories.sap.ondemand.com
```

> 6. Create a `values.yml` containing the configuration that suites your desired operational mode, for the available operational modes refer to the [documentation](https://wiki.wdf.sap.corp/wiki/display/NGP/Operational+modes#Operationalmodes-Singletenantinatrustedenvironment).
> For the specific content of the configuration refer to the [configuration guide](https://wiki.wdf.sap.corp/wiki/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=NGP&title=Configuration+guide).

Author: ```suggestion
6. Create a `values.yml` containing the configuration that suits your desired operational mode, for the available operational modes refer to the [documentation](https://wiki.wdf.sap.corp/wiki/display/NGP/Operational+modes#Operationalmodes-Singletenantinatrustedenvironment).
For the specific content of the configuration refer to the [configuration guide](https://wiki.wdf.sap.corp/wiki/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=NGP&title=Configuration+guide).
```

Here is an example for the `Single tenant in a trusted environment` mode:

```yaml
deployment:
  replicaCount: 1
  image:
    pullSecret: "proxy-secret"
ingress:
  tls:
    secretName: "connectivity-tls"
config:
  integration:
    auditlog:
      mode: console
    connectivityService:
      serviceCredentialsKey: "connectivity_key"
  tenantMode: dedicated
  subaccountId: "<subaccount-id>"
  subaccountSubdomain: "<subaccount-domain>"
  servers:
    businessDataTunnel:
      externalHost: "connectivitytunnel.ingress.cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com"
      externalPort: 443
    proxy:
      rfcAndLdap:
        enabled: true
        enableProxyAuthorization: false
      http:
        enabled: true
        enableProxyAuthorization: false
        enableRequestTracing: true
      socks5:
        enableProxyAuthorization: false
```

> 7. For your application to reach On-Premise destinations, it needs the proxy settings, currently these have to be added manually to the secret containing the service binding.

Author: ```suggestion
7. For your application to reach On-Premise destinations, it needs the proxy settings, currently, these have to be added manually to the secret containing the service binding.
```

---
title: Migrate a JS SDK App from SAP BTP CF to Kubernetes
sidebar_label: Migrate to Kubernetes
description: Learn how to migrate your application from SAP BTP Cloud Foundry to Kubernetes.
keywords:
  - sap
  - cloud
  - sdk
  - cloud native
  - cloud sdk
  - sap cloud sdk
  - kubernetes
---

# How to Migrate a CloudFoundry Application to a Kubernetes Cluster

> In this how-to, we will show step by step what is necessary to migrate an application from CloudFoundry to Kubernetes.

Reviewer: https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/step-by-step

```suggestion
In this how-to, we will show step-by-step what is necessary to migrate an application from CloudFoundry to Kubernetes.
```

> 1. First we decide what kind of environment we are creating. Is it a PoC, a Staging, or a Productive environment?

Reviewer: This should render the same but keeps every sentence on it's own line.
Also each acronym should be spelled out at least once (in this case PoC)
```suggestion
1. We decide what kind of environment we are creating. 
   Is it a proof-of-concept (PoC), staging, or productive environment?
```

> 2. Then we prepare and set up our cluster with the sufficient services and service bindings to satisfy the environment's requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. We prepare and set up our cluster with the sufficient services and service bindings to satisfy the environment's requirements.
```

> 3. Finally, we adapt our application to deploy to Kubernetes and make sure it can consume bound services from within our Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. We adapt our application to deploy to Kubernetes and make sure it can consume bound services from within our Kubernetes cluster.
```

> Select an environment you're planning to build and click on it to jump to a corresponding section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the type of environment you're planning to build and click on it to jump to the corresponding section:
```

- [Simple PoC Environment](#simple-poc-environments)

>   - If you only do a simple PoC this kind of environment will be sufficient for you. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If you want to create a PoC, this kind of environment will be sufficient for you. 
```

    It's not recommended for productive use or long-running PoCs.
- [Staging Environments](#staging-environments)
  - For staging environments, we will take a look at a way to create and bind services manually.
    This is primarily meant to try out different service setups.
- [Production Environments](#production-environments)
  - For production environments, we will take a look at a way to create and bind services with reproducibility, longevity, and developer simplicity in mind.

## Simple PoC Environments
For a simple PoC, we can create and bind services in CloudFoundry, or preferably even use already existing service bindings.

### Prerequisites

> - [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
> - [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

Reviewer: I would monospace each tool to stay consistent.

```suggestion
- [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
- [`docker`](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
```

### Create and Bind Services
If you want to create and bind _new_ services, you can deploy a `hello-world` app to SAP BTP Cloud Foundry and then bind services to this app.
Once that is done, access and copy the JSON representation of the bindings and create a secret in Kubernetes out of them.

> The secret has to be in YAML format like in the example below. Use the values from service binding's JSON data to fill respective fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The secret has to be in YAML format like in the example below. 
Use the values from service binding's JSON data to fill respective fields.
```

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: destination-service
type: Opaque
stringData:
  clientid: <client-id>
  clientsecret: <client-secret>
  url: <url>
  identityzone: <identityzone>
  tenantid: <tenantid>
  tenantmode: <tenantmode>
  verificationkey: <verificationkey>
  xsappname: <xsappname>
  uaadomain: <uaadomain>
  instanceid: <instanceid>

>   uri: <uri>

Reviewer: Is this supposed to be copied 1 to 1 or should the `<...>` parts be replaced and with what? I would expect a sentence like:
> Use the data from the JSON file to replace the corresponding value in the `stringData` section of the YAML.

```

Once you are done, run `kubectl apply -f <your-binding>.yml` to create the secret in your cluster.

Now let's take a look at how we adapt our application to deploy it to Kubernetes and make it consume services from inside of a Kubernetes cluster.
For this jump over to the [Deploy to Kubernetes](#deploy-to-kubernetes) section.

## Staging Environments
For a staging environment where you want to try out different services or experiment with service configurations, it is fine to use the following setup.

### Prerequisites
- [`smctl`](https://github.com/Peripli/service-manager-cli)

> - [svcat](https://svc-cat.io/docs/cli/)
> - [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
> - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
> - [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`svcat`](https://svc-cat.io/docs/cli/)
- [`helm`](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
- [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
- [`docker`](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
```

### Configure the Service Manager

> First, create a Service Manager instance in CloudFoundry with the `subaccount-admin` plan. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create a service manager instance in CloudFoundry with the `subaccount-admin` plan. 
```

Reviewer: Also this should probably be lower case in the whole following section

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure if lower case applies here since `Service Manager` is the name of the service 🤔

To be able to create a Service Manager, you will need sufficient privileges in the SAP BTP Cloud Foundry. Follow the steps below to get them:

In the SAP BTP cockpit, navigate to your `subaccount` and choose **Security → Trust Configuration → SAP ID Service**.
Assign the `Subaccount Service Administrator` role collection to your email address.

Next, you need to login to the service manager control, also called `smctl`, and register your cluster
```
smctl login -a https://service-manager.<cf-api-end-point> --param subdomain=<your-cf-subdomain>
smctl register-platform <name-you-want-to-give-the-cluster> kubernetes > service-manager-credentials.txt
```

> The `service-manager-credentials.txt` is sensitive data, keep it in a safe place. You will need it later on, especially the `username` and `password`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `service-manager-credentials.txt` is sensitive data, keep it in a safe place. 
You will need it later on, especially the `username` and `password`.
```

Reviewer: Why especially username and password? Are those the only ones that I will need later?

### Service Broker Registration

> To make the services available in the Kubernetes cluster we need to register a service broker into the Service Catalog of our Kubernetes cluster.  In SAP BTP Cloud Foundry the role of a service broker is fulfilled by the `Service Manager`.

Reviewer: One line per sentence and stay consistent with naming (e.g. service manager should always be 
in monospace or lowercase or spelled as a proper noun...)

```suggestion
To make the services available in the Kubernetes cluster, we need to register a service broker into the Service Catalog of our Kubernetes cluster.  
In SAP BTP Cloud Foundry the role of a service broker is fulfilled by the service manager.
```

Register it using the Service Catalog CLI, `svcat`.

To access the `Service Manager` on SAP BTP CF, we need to install the `service-broker-proxy` in our K8s cluster.
Here's how you do it:

```bash
helm repo add peripli 'https://peripli.github.io'

kubectl create namespace service-broker-proxy

helm install service-broker-proxy peripli/service-broker-proxy-k8s \
  --namespace service-broker-proxy \
  --set image.tag=v0.3.2 \
  --set config.sm.url=<service-manager-url> \
  --set sm.user=<service-manager-user> \
  --set sm.password=<service-manager-password>
```
After installing the proxy you have to wait a few seconds until it is fully operational.
Once the proxy is up, try running `svcat marketplace`, all the services available on SAP BTP CF should now be listed.

### Create and Bind Services

> Now we can create service instances with the service catalog. Let's create a destination service instance first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can create service instances with the service catalog. 
Let's create a destination service instance first.
```

For this jump over to the [Deploy to Kubernetes](#deploy-to-kubernetes) section.

## Production Environments
For production environments, you need a reliable and reproducible way of configuring which services are running in your cluster.
To achieve that you can leverage the service operator. 
With the service operator, all services are deployed via YAML files.
It makes services management a lot easier, scalable, and protected from errors in a long-term production environment.

### Prerequisites
- [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
- [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- Kubernetes Cluster with a LoadBalancer enabled, we recommend using [Gardener](https://dashboard.garden.canary.k8s.ondemand.com/)

### Configure Operator
To use the service operator, you'll need to set up at least basic TLS with a self-signed issuer certificate. 
Run the command below to install the `cert-manager` to aid your TLS setup.

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.4.0/cert-manager.yaml
```

> To deploy the `cert-manager` into your cluster, install the `cert-manager` CRDs with

Reviewer: What is `CRDs`?

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.4.0/cert-manager.crds.yaml
```

> Finally, add a self-signed certificate issuer to your cluster. It can be done by adding the following YAML configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, add a self-signed certificate issuer to your cluster. 
It can be done by adding the following YAML configuration:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: Issuer
metadata:
  name: selfsigned-issuer
spec:
  selfSigned: {}
---
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: selfsigned-cluster-issuer
spec:
  selfSigned: {}
```

After you deployed the self-signed certificate issuer, we can start steps to deploy a service operator instance.
- First, we create a `Service Manager` instance in SAP BTP CF with the `service-operator-access` plan.

> - After creating an instance we also need to bind it. The binding `JSON` should look similar to this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- After creating an instance we also need to bind it. 
  The binding `JSON` should look similar to this:
```

```JSON
 {
     "clientid": "<clientid>",
     "clientsecret": "<clientsecret>",
     "url": "<url>",
     "xsappname": "<xsappname>",
     "sm_url": "<sm_url>"
 }
```

> - Once you have the data from the Service Manager's binding, provide it to `helm` and deploy the service operator. Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes.:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have the data from the Service Manager's binding, provide it to `helm` and deploy the service operator. 
Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes.:
```

    servicePlanName: lite
```

Binding the instance:

```yaml
apiVersion: services.cloud.sap.com/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceBinding
metadata:
  name: operator-destination-service
spec:
  serviceInstanceName: operator-destination-service
```

:::info
Notice that the `metadata -> name` property can be anything you want.
In our case, it's `operator-destination-service`.
Make sure it matches exactly to the `spec -> serviceInstanceName` field in the binding.
:::

Follow this pattern for all services your application needs to create and bind.

Now let's take a look at how we adapt our application to deploy it to Kubernetes and make it consume services from inside of a Kubernetes cluster.
For this jump over to the [Deploy to Kubernetes](#deploy-to-kubernetes) section.

## Deploy to Kubernetes
To deploy an application to Kubernetes we have to take a look at two things:
1. How do we deploy our application to Kubernetes.
2. How do we consume the services in our application from within Kubernetes.
We'll use our example application to demonstrate this.

### Example application
Here's the example application we're going to use: [Kubernetes app](https://github.tools.sap/cloudsdk/k8s-e2e-app) app.

> To figure out what has to be migrated we just have to take a look at the `manifest.yml`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To figure out what has to be migrated we just have to take a look at the `manifest.yml`.
```

```yaml
applications:
  - name: k8s-e2e-app
    path: deployment/
    buildpacks:
      - nodejs_buildpack
    memory: 256M
    command: npm run start:prod
    random-route: true
    services:
      - destination-service
      - xsuaa-service 
```
From this we see that:
- We need a node environment
- We need 256MB of memory
- How to start the app
- The services we need to create and bind

> This information is important in the following steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This information is important in the following steps.
```

```yaml
volumes:
- name: <some-volume-name>
  secret:
    secretName: <name-of-service-binding>
```

Here we make a secret, in this case, a service binding, available as a volume.
Next, we need to mount this secret at a specific path for it to be usable by our application.
For this, we follow a path convention provided by the [xsenv](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sap/xsenv) library.

```yaml
volumeMounts:
  - name: <volume-name>
    mountPath: "/etc/secrets/sapcp/<service>/<service-name>" 
    readOnly: true
```

###  Deploy and Expose Your Application
To deploy your application, run:

`kubectl apply -f deployment.yml`

To access your application you have two options, either you expose it to the internet directly or port-forward to your local machine.

### Local Connection
Run `kubectl port-forward deployment <your-deployment> :3000` on your local machine to enable port forwarding.
We use port 3000 because our application is listening on it.
Kubernetes will find any available port on your local machine and forward port 3000 of your deployment to it.
Then you'll be able to make a call to your application via a provided link.

### Internet Facing Connection

> Run the command below to expose your application to the internet. It will use your cluster's IP address and port your application listens on. Exposing an application this way is good only for testing. Don't use it in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the command below to expose your application to the internet. 
It will use your cluster's IP address and port your application listens on. 
Exposing an application this way is good only for testing. 
**Don't use it in production.**
```

Reviewer: Also why is this part of the "production environment" section?

Reviewer 2: Indeed, I'll put it in its own section

kubectl --token=${{ secrets.KUBERNETES_SERVICE_TOKEN }} --certificate-authority <path/to/ca.cert> cluster-info
```

After completing the previous steps, run the command below. It shutdowns all the Pods in order to restart them.
```bash
kubectl --token=${{ secrets.KUBERNETES_SERVICE_TOKEN }} --certificate-authority <path/to/ca.cert> rollout restart deployment/<your-deployment-name>
```

If your deployment is configured with `ImagePullStrategy: Always` this will pull the updated image and use it.

## Configure TLS and Obtain a Domain in SAP Gardener

### Prerequisites
- Enable the NGINX Ingress add-on for your `SAP Gardener` cluster

The fastest way to enable TLS and obtain a domain for your application is to create a service, which contains your deployment, and an Ingress, which handles the routing.
In `SAP Gardener` you can already specify your desired domain and the TLS will be managed for you, more on that later.

Create a service that contains your deployment and the port you want to expose as in example below:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: sdkjs-e2e-svc
spec:
  selector:
    app: sdkjs-e2e
  ports:
  - port: 8080
    targetPort: 3000
```

> Next, check your shoot-cluster YAML for the currently configured DNS.

Reviewer: > Next, check your shoot-cluster YAML for the currently configured DNS.

What is a "shoot-cluster YAML"? It should be explained clearly beforehand.

Reviewer 2: Agreed, it is a Gardener specific component, I'll add some explanation

Reviewer: I didn't see the explanation. Did you forget to add it or did I miss it? 😅

It should be a field that looks like this:

```yaml
spec:
  dns:
    domain: cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
```

Since you have the NGINX Ingress enabled, all your domains have to follow the pattern `*.ingress.<your-dns>`, for example 

```yaml
e2e.ingress.cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
```

> This is how your Ingress file should look like:

Reviewer: ingress is not a proper noun (to my knowledge)
```suggestion
This is how your ingress file should look like:
```

Reviewer: This appears many times in this section.

Reviewer 2: yes, but Ingress is a name of a component, therefore I'd use a capital I

Reviewer 2: Yeah I guess when you are not familiar with the k8s lingo that makes sense, here is a reference to the Ingress docs https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress/

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: sdkjs-e2e-ingress
  annotations:
    cert.gardener.cloud/purpose: managed
spec:
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
    - e2e.ingress.cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
    secretName: secret-tls
  rules:
  - host: e2e.ingress.cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: sdkjs-e2e-svc
            port:
              number: 8080
```

Notice how our Ingress uses the `SAP Gardener` annotations, which is important so that `SAP Gardener` manages our TLS.

Next, you can see in the `spec.tls.hosts` part that we expose 2 domains.

> The first one is our default domain, it's limited to a maximum of 64 haracters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first one is our default domain, it's limited to a maximum of 64 characters.
```

```

3. Add annotations to your Ingress.
For our example, it should look like the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: sdkjs-e2e-ingress
  annotations:
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-type: basic
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-secret: ingress-gate-auth
    nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-realm: 'Authentication Required - This services is protected.'
    cert.gardener.cloud/purpose: managed
spec:
  tls:
  - hosts:
    - cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
    - e2e.ingress.cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
    secretName: secret-tls
  rules:
  - host: e2e.ingress.cloud-sdk-js.sdktests.shoot.canary.k8s-hana.ondemand.com
    http:
      paths:
      - path: /
        pathType: Prefix
        backend:
          service:
            name: sdkjs-e2e-svc
            port:
              number: 8080
```

Notice how `ingress-gate-auth` is the name of the secret containing our password. The text following the annotation `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/auth-realm:` contains a message, which is prompted when asking for credentials for the basic authentication.

> Your basic authentication should now work. Accessing any path should open an authentication window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your basic authentication should now work. 
Accessing any path should open an authentication window.
```

This is a requirement of the connectivity proxy since it can't consume the data of the secret in YAML format _yet_.
:::

4. Now we need to download the CA certificate of the connectivity service and create a secret containing:
- The CA certificate of the connectivity service
- Our private key
- Our public certificate

The private key and public certificate are also stored in our TLS secret, use the previous code snippet to retrieve it from the secret and save them in separate files.
Finally, download the CA certificate with the following line:

```bash
curl https://connectivity.cf.sap.hana.ondemand.com/api/v1/CAs/signing -o connectivity_ca.crt
```

Now you can create the secret with this command:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic connectivity-tls --from-file=ca.crt=<your-connectivity-ca.crt> --from-file=tls.key=<your-private.key> --from-file=tls.crt=<your-public.crt> --namespace default
```

5. Create a secret that contains credentials to access the docker image which the `Connectivity Proxy` is using.

The image is located here: `deploy-releases.docker.repositories.sap.ondemand.com`

To create the registry secret use the following command:

```bash 

> kubectl create secret docker-registry <your-registry-secret> \                                                                                                   ✔  12402  13:33:05

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl create secret docker-registry <your-registry-secret> \                                                                                                   ✔  12402  13:33:05
```
This renders pretty badly on my machine (weird boxes or ascii chars...). Is that intended?
<img width="548" alt="Screen Shot 2021-08-09 at 09 40 05" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26565533/128673435-d5f35e43-e865-47f3-8372-6c8273c350e0.png">

## Simple PoC Environments
For a simple PoC, we can create and bind services in CloudFoundry, or preferably even use already existing service bindings.

### Prerequisites
- [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
- [`docker`](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

### Create and Bind Services
If you want to create and bind _new_ services, you can deploy a `hello-world` app to SAP BTP Cloud Foundry and then bind services to this app.
Once that is done, access and copy the JSON representation of the bindings and create a secret in Kubernetes out of them.

The secret has to be in YAML format like in the example below. 
Use the values from service binding's JSON data to replace the corresponding value in the stringData section of the YAML.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: destination-service
type: Opaque
stringData:
  clientid: <client-id>
  clientsecret: <client-secret>
  url: <url>
  identityzone: <identityzone>
  tenantid: <tenantid>
  tenantmode: <tenantmode>
  verificationkey: <verificationkey>
  xsappname: <xsappname>
  uaadomain: <uaadomain>
  instanceid: <instanceid>
  uri: <uri>
```

> Once you are done, run `kubectl apply -f <your-binding>.yml` to create the secret in your cluster.

Author: It's somewhat explained above how to fetch the data for the secret. Feedback is taken, we'll refine it with the iterations to come.

## Staging Environments
For a staging environment where you want to try out different services or experiment with service configurations, it is fine to use the following setup.

### Prerequisites
- [`smctl`](https://github.com/Peripli/service-manager-cli)
- [`svcat`](https://svc-cat.io/docs/cli/)
- [`helm`](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)
- [`kubectl`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/)
- [`docker`](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)

### Configure the Service Manager
First, create a service manager instance in CloudFoundry with the `subaccount-admin` plan. 

To be able to create a service manager, you will need sufficient privileges in the SAP BTP Cloud Foundry.
Follow the steps below to get them:

In the SAP BTP cockpit, navigate to your `subaccount` and choose **Security → Trust Configuration → SAP ID Service**.
Assign the `Subaccount Service Administrator` role collection to your email address.

Next, you need to login to the service manager control, also called `smctl`, and register your cluster
```
smctl login -a https://service-manager.<cf-api-end-point> --param subdomain=<your-cf-subdomain>

> smctl register-platform <name-you-want-to-give-the-cluster> kubernetes > service-manager-credentials.txt

Author: Good hint. We'll update to mention the guide aims at Posix env.
